foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
but hey
Google
are
you know
um foreign
currency
is
[Music]
foreign
poetry
canonies
probably one of the most important yes
it is contemporary books
um
I could say boys
aside from other relationships
foreign
[Music]
she thought she knew acrobatics rather
well
that she could juggle time with both
hands
play with the now right next to the then
she would make both dance she taught
fist to fist
and she would Glide so smooth along the
tightrope
she thought she could do absolutely
anything at all
only once in your life will the Rope
Shiva
commentary
um
actors would say
uh Universal
um
[Music]
foreign
Miami
[Music]
um
[Applause]
so it was a surprise and I had to make
that choice I had always somehow seen
the acrobat to be a woman
because I had graduated you know yes so
I had read it as a
as a poem about the precarious
multitasking that a woman has to do to
survive so I translated it like that and
I mean with the she the market is
foreign
money act uh
[Music]
act event
um
[Music]
events
important ideas
exactly which is very lovely
foreign
is the girl sleeping or is she awake but
lost in dreams
in thought
the girl is asleep left arm flung across
her forehead
right hand
on her lips
is this silent household awakes the girl
will not wake up
in one eye squeeze a teardrop
in the other nothing
all day all night her ears ring with
wild Applause like a waterfall in the
monsoon
the girl remains asleep a tear in one
eye in the other nothing
long ago the girl had seen a trapeze act
in a circus
two acrobats were flying like birds from
perch to perch
then all around them a great emptiness
and in the center Long swings swaying in
Celebration
awake or asleep night or day the girl is
lost in a dream of trapeze
in one eye swings a teardrop
in the other
nothing
thank you
I treat Yota
um
Ita
[Music]
um
uh
my name is
they were getting separated and she
decided to come back to Kolkata
and she was this impossibly glamorous
young person
she was a very talented artist
you know you're you have so many
different
um talents and passions and and what
should I say accomplishments in many
different directions
Ma
is
so intensely proud and ma was a person
like that she was an artist she was a
writer she was a young she was a
brilliant young student who was going
off to Harvard and she was also engaged
to be married to someone who was seen as
a future Superstar
and everybody was heartbroken when she
decided to leave it was a huge
sadness
she was sort of connected to the pulse
of the the the cultural pulse of the
city uh
it was like that it was very much like
that actually that's a good connection
foreign
rare chilo in fact marred literary
Circle Progressive
Circle
full of artists and writers and
activists nobody she didn't know anyone
who was no one who was divorced no one
knew a divorcee and it took a while for
the city to understand how to respond to
Ma
be took and of course
foreign
but
um
because we have a kind of tendency to be
matrilineal which is great but um
it's a quite personal story to be honest
and you've never heard it no I haven't
it's an intensely personal story
foreign
[Music]
with complete honesty
um
foreign
this is not quite the same translation
but
foreign
I'm your true love your whole world I'm
back from the war an aborted mother
I brought the ocean with me instead
my lap is empty yes but my breasts are
heavy overflowing with wasted milk
look at the fathomless sea water in my
eyes
come then look at me see how virginity
burns on my brow again
Theory as the Setting Sun
touch me
for my newborn flesh belongs to you now
receive me then Kolkata in your waking
arms your loneliness is over at last
I have returned just as you had wanted
me to why this stunned silence then this
anxious glance this days lift your face
don't shift your eyes look at me
your prayers were heard here I am
returned from the dead yes it's me
your childhood sweetheart
your world of passion your old flame
your very own nabanita
Kolkata
Ami Thomas
foreign
Joshua
Bonita
[Music]
um
very very prominent form apart and also
a formidable feminist actually she was
an early feminist
um
foreign
working as a poet and establishing
themselves
didn't really fit into any uh uh
any
boxes or nobody knew anybody like them
Dima
that was legal but nobody did it unheard
of foreign
foreign
um I think they're cutting us
okay
yeah wrap up
um
obviously
[Music]
foreign
uh
um
foreign
that's a very it's a unique it's an
extraordinary thing I don't know of any
other
um write a
who is a scientist who can do that in
the way that you do it
um
[Music]
foreign difficult
mm-hmm
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]